docs/content/index.md, before:

---
seo:
  title: trueform — Real-time geometric processing
  description: Geometry library for real-time spatial queries, mesh booleans, and topology. C++ header-only with Python bindings.
---

::u-page-hero{class="dark:bg-gradient-to-b from-neutral-900 to-neutral-950"}
---
orientation: horizontal
---
#top
:hero-background

#title
Real-time [geometric processing]{.text-primary}

#description
Spatial queries, mesh booleans, isocontours, topology — at interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Robust to non-manifold flaps, inconsistent winding, and pipeline artifacts. C++ header-only; Python with NumPy in, NumPy out.

#links
  :::u-button
  ---
  to: /cpp/getting-started
  size: xl
  variant: subtle
  trailing-icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-cpp
  ---
  Get started
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  to: /py/getting-started
  size: xl
  variant: subtle
  trailing-icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
  ---
  Get started
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-play
  color: primary
  variant: solid
  size: xl
  to: /live-examples/boolean
  class: animate-pulse
  ---
  Try it live
  :::

#default
  ::chart-carousel
  ::
::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-neutral-950"}
#title
Why trueform

#links
  :::u-button
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-play
  color: primary
  variant: solid
  size: lg
  to: /live-examples/boolean
  class: animate-pulse
  ---
  Try it live
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  color: neutral
  size: lg
  to: /cpp/benchmarks
  trailingIcon: i-lucide-chart-line
  variant: subtle
  ---
  See benchmarks
  :::

#features
  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-shield-check
  ---
  #title
  Robust by Design

  #description
  Production-tested on meshes with non-manifold flaps, inconsistent geometry, and accumulated pipeline artifacts.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-gauge
  ---
  #title
  Real-time Performance

  #description
  Interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Algorithms benchmarked against VTK, CGAL, libigl, Coal, FCL, and nanoflann.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-atom
  ---
  #title
  Zero-Copy Views

  #description
  Wrap your existing data with geometric meaning. No copies, no boiler-plate. Your buffers, enriched with spatial semantics.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-tree-pine
  ---
  #title
  Spatial Acceleration

  #description
  Fast spatial queries on point clouds, curves, and meshes. k-NN, closest points, ray casting, collision detection. Transform geometry without rebuilding acceleration structures.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-shapes
  ---
  #title
  Topology & Intersections

  #description
  Understand mesh structure—connectivity, boundaries, connected components. Find where meshes meet: intersection curves, self-intersections, isocontours.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-scissors
  ---
  #title
  Cut & Boolean Operations

  #description
  Combine and cut meshes with union, intersection, difference. Commutative correctness: chain operations freely, clean up once at the end.
  :::
:::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-neutral-950"}
#title
Integrations

#default
::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-layers
  title: VTK
  to: /cpp/vtk
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to VTK applications. Filters and functions that integrate with VTK pipelines.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
  title: Python
  to: /py/getting-started
  ---
  Real-time geometric processing in your Python workflow. NumPy in, NumPy out.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-blender
  title: Blender
  to: /py/blender
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to Blender add-ons. Cached meshes with automatic updates for live preview.
  :::
::
:::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-gradient-to-b from-neutral-950 to-neutral-900"}
  :::u-page-c-t-a
  ---
  links:
    - label: C++
      to: '/cpp/getting-started'
      icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-cpp
      trailingIcon: i-lucide-arrow-right
    - label: Python
      to: '/py/getting-started'
      icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
      variant: subtle
      trailingIcon: i-lucide-arrow-right
  title: Start now
  description: From pip install to mesh booleans — in minutes.
  class: dark:bg-neutral-950
  ---
  :::
:::

Commit message:

v0.3.0: integrate mod_tree for incremental spatial updates
Add mod_tree to public API with full support across all spatial operations.
mod_tree enables O(delta) updates instead of O(n) rebuilds for interactive
applications with frequent local geometry changes.

New features:
- aabb_mod_tree, obb_mod_tree, obbrss_mod_tree convenience aliases
- tree_index_map for managing ID remapping during updates
- All spatial queries (distance, intersects, neighbor_search, ray_cast,
  gather_ids, search, search_self) work identically with tree and mod_tree
- VTK module now uses aabb_mod_tree as its default spatial structure

Documentation:
- Comprehensive mod_tree usage guide with update patterns
- tree_index_map API reference

Examples:
- Free-form smoothing: interactive mesh smoothing with incremental tree updates
- VTK laplacian_smoothing: demonstrates mod_tree integration with VTK

Tests:
- Systematic mod_tree query tests covering dirty/non-dirty region results

docs/content/index.md, after:

---
seo:
  title: trueform — Real-time geometric processing
  description: Geometry library for real-time spatial queries, mesh booleans, and topology. C++ header-only with Python bindings.
---

::u-page-hero{class="dark:bg-gradient-to-b from-neutral-900 to-neutral-950"}
---
orientation: horizontal
---
#top
:hero-background

#title
Real-time [geometric processing]{.text-primary}

#description
Spatial queries, mesh booleans, isocontours, topology — at interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Robust to non-manifold flaps, inconsistent winding, and pipeline artifacts. C++ header-only; Python with NumPy in, NumPy out.

#links
  :::u-button
  ---
  to: /cpp/getting-started
  size: xl
  variant: subtle
  trailing-icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-cpp
  ---
  Get started
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  to: /py/getting-started
  size: xl
  variant: subtle
  trailing-icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
  ---
  Get started
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-play
  color: primary
  variant: solid
  size: xl
  to: /live-examples/boolean
  class: animate-pulse
  ---
  Try it live
  :::

#default
  ::chart-carousel
  ::
::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-neutral-950"}
#title
Why trueform

#links
  :::u-button
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-play
  color: primary
  variant: solid
  size: lg
  to: /live-examples/boolean
  class: animate-pulse
  ---
  Try it live
  :::

  :::u-button
  ---
  color: neutral
  size: lg
  to: /cpp/benchmarks
  trailingIcon: i-lucide-chart-line
  variant: subtle
  ---
  See benchmarks
  :::

#features
  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-shield-check
  ---
  #title
  Robust by Design

  #description
  Production-tested on meshes with non-manifold flaps, inconsistent geometry, and accumulated pipeline artifacts.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-gauge
  ---
  #title
  Real-time Performance

  #description
  Interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Algorithms benchmarked against VTK, CGAL, libigl, Coal, FCL, and nanoflann.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-atom
  ---
  #title
  Zero-Copy Views

  #description
  Wrap your existing data with geometric meaning. No copies, no boiler-plate. Your buffers, enriched with spatial semantics.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-tree-pine
  ---
  #title
  Spatial Acceleration

  #description
  Fast spatial queries on moving point clouds, curves, and meshes. Immutable and modifiable trees for changing topology. k-NN, closest points, ray casting, collision detection.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-shapes
  ---
  #title
  Topology & Intersections

  #description
  Understand mesh structure—connectivity, boundaries, connected components. Find where meshes meet: intersection curves, self-intersections, isocontours.
  :::

  :::u-page-feature
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-scissors
  ---
  #title
  Cut & Boolean Operations

  #description
  Combine and cut meshes with union, intersection, difference. Commutative correctness: chain operations freely, clean up once at the end.
  :::
:::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-neutral-950"}
#title
Integrations

#default
::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-layers
  title: VTK
  to: /cpp/vtk
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to VTK applications. Filters and functions that integrate with VTK pipelines.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
  title: Python
  to: /py/getting-started
  ---
  Real-time geometric processing in your Python workflow. NumPy in, NumPy out.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-blender
  title: Blender
  to: /py/blender
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to Blender add-ons. Cached meshes with automatic updates for live preview.
  :::
::
:::

:::u-page-section{class="dark:bg-gradient-to-b from-neutral-950 to-neutral-900"}
  :::u-page-c-t-a
  ---
  links:
    - label: C++
      to: '/cpp/getting-started'
      icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-cpp
      trailingIcon: i-lucide-arrow-right
    - label: Python
      to: '/py/getting-started'
      icon: i-vscode-icons:file-type-python
      variant: subtle
      trailingIcon: i-lucide-arrow-right
  title: Start now
  description: From pip install to mesh booleans — in minutes.
  class: dark:bg-neutral-950
  ---
  :::
:::
