docs/content/cpp/1.getting-started/1.index.md, before:

---
title: Introduction
description: Real-time geometric processing. Easy to use, robust on real-world data.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-house
---

`trueform` is a C++ library for real-time geometric processing. Spatial queries, mesh booleans, isocontours, topology — at interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Robust to non-manifold flaps, inconsistent winding, and pipeline artifacts. Header-only; works directly on your data with zero-copy views.

::try-it-banner
::

You control the complexity. Simple code just works. Algorithms compute what they need internally. In performance-critical paths, precompute structures and tag them. The compiler detects and reuses them.

::core-hierarchy-diagram
::

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-rocket
  title: Installation
  to: /cpp/getting-started/installation
  ---
  Install via pip, Conan, system-wide, or FetchContent.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-box
  title: Modules
  to: /cpp/modules
  ---
  Learn how trueform works — primitives, ranges, policies, and the algorithms that connect them.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-chart-bar-stacked
  title: Benchmarks
  to: /cpp/benchmarks
  ---
  Benchmarked against VTK, CGAL, libigl, Coal, FCL, and nanoflann.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-code
  title: Examples
  to: /cpp/examples
  ---
  Complete workflows — geometry, alignment, and library comparisons.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-layers
  title: VTK Integration
  to: /cpp/vtk
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to VTK applications.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-book-open
  title: Research
  to: /cpp/about/research
  ---
  Theory, publications, and citation.
  :::
::

## Quick Tour

Here's how trueform enables complex geometric workflows with minimal code:

```cpp
#include <trueform/trueform.hpp>

// Start with your raw data—no copies, no conversions
std::vector<float> raw_points = {0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0};
std::vector<int> indices = {0, 1, 2};

auto points = tf::make_points<3>(raw_points);
auto faces = tf::make_faces<3>(indices);
auto triangles = tf::make_polygons(faces, points);
// or maybe faces are variable
std::vector<int> offsets = {0, 3};
auto d_faces = tf::make_faces(offsets, indices);
auto d_polygons = tf::make_polygons(d_faces, points);

auto polygons_buffer = tf::read_stl("file.stl");
auto polygons = polygons_buffer.polygons();
```

**Primitive queries** work directly on geometry:

```cpp
auto polygon = polygons.front();
auto segment = tf::make_segment_between_points(points[0], points[1]);
auto ray = tf::make_ray_between_points(
    tf::make_point(0.2f, 0.2f, -1.0f),
    tf::make_point(0.2f, 0.2f, 1.0f));

auto [dist2, pt_on_poly, pt_on_seg] = tf::closest_metric_point_pair(polygon, segment);
bool contains = tf::contains_point(polygon, points[0]);
if (auto hit = tf::ray_hit(ray, polygon)) {
    auto [status, t, hit_point] = hit;
}
```

**Mesh analysis** reveals structure and defects:

```cpp
// Connected components
auto [n_components, labels] = tf::make_manifold_edge_connected_component_labels(polygons);
auto [components, component_ids] = tf::split_into_components(polygons, labels);

// Vertex neighborhoods
auto v_link = tf::make_vertex_link(polygons);
auto k2_ring = tf::make_k_rings(v_link, 2);
auto neighs = tf::make_neighborhoods(polygons.points() | tf::tag(v_link), 0.5f);

// Principal curvatures and directions
auto [k0, k1, d0, d1] = tf::make_principal_directions(polygons);

// Boundary curves (open edges)
auto boundary_paths = tf::make_boundary_paths(polygons);
auto boundary_curves = tf::make_curves(boundary_paths, polygons.points());

// Non-manifold edges (shared by >2 faces)
auto bad_edges = tf::make_non_manifold_edges(polygons);
auto bad_segments = tf::make_segments(bad_edges, polygons.points());

// Fix inconsistent face winding
tf::orient_faces_consistently(polygons);
```

**Spatial acceleration** enables queries on transformed geometry:

```cpp
tf::aabb_tree<int, float, 3> tree(polygons, tf::config_tree(4, 4));

auto dynamic_form = polygons | tf::tag(tree)
    | tf::tag(tf::random_transformation<float, 3>());
auto static_form = polygons | tf::tag(tree);

// Collision detection
bool does_intersect = tf::intersects(static_form, dynamic_form);
float distance2 = tf::distance2(static_form, dynamic_form);

// Collect all intersecting primitive pairs
std::vector<std::pair<int, int>> collisions;
tf::gather_ids(static_form, dynamic_form, tf::intersects_f,
               std::back_inserter(collisions));

// Compute intersection curves
auto curves = tf::make_intersection_curves(static_form, dynamic_form);
```

**Boolean operations** combine meshes:

```cpp
auto [result_mesh, labels] = tf::make_boolean(
    polygons0,
    polygons1 | tf::tag(tf::make_rotation(tf::deg(45.f), tf::axis<2>)),
    tf::boolean_op::merge);

// With intersection curves
auto [result, labels, curves] = tf::make_boolean(
    polygons0, polygons1, tf::boolean_op::intersection, tf::return_curves);
```

**Scalar fields and isocontours**:

```cpp
// Compute distance field from a plane
auto plane = tf::make_plane(polygons.front());
tf::buffer<float> scalars;
scalars.allocate(polygons.points().size());
tf::parallel_transform(polygons.points(), scalars, tf::distance_f(plane));

// Extract isocontours embedded into the mesh
std::vector<float> cut_values = {-0.5f, 0.0f, 0.5f};
auto [contour_mesh, contour_labels, isocontours] = tf::embedded_isocurves(
    polygons, scalars, tf::make_range(cut_values), tf::return_curves);
```

**Mesh cleanup** prepares geometry for processing:

```cpp
// Merge coincident vertices, remove degenerates and duplicates
auto clean_mesh = tf::cleaned(polygons, tf::epsilon<float>);

// Triangulate n-gons
auto tri_mesh = tf::triangulated(polygons);

// Ensure outward-facing normals on closed meshes
tf::ensure_positive_orientation(polygons);
```

## Continue Learning

The Quick Tour above shows trueform's syntax. To build intuition for real workflows, start with the Geometry Walkthrough — a complete example from raw data to final output. Then explore the Modules to understand the underlying patterns.

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-box
  title: Geometry Walkthrough
  to: /cpp/examples/mesh-assembly
  ---
  A hands-on tour from raw geometry through booleans and connected components. See the library in action.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-book-open
  title: Modules
  to: /cpp/modules
  ---
  Learn how trueform works — primitives, ranges, policies, and the algorithms that connect them.
  :::
::

Commit message:

v0.2.0: add conan integration and fix sdist
conan integration:
- python -m trueform.conan create: adds trueform to conan cache
- python -m trueform.conan --path: prints conanfile directory
- uses subprocess to call system conan (no dependency bloat)
- mirrors the existing cmake integration pattern

this allows pip users to also use trueform as a conan package for their
C++ projects without needing to clone the repo.

sdist fix:
- exclude benchmarks, docs, vtk, wasm-examples etc from source dist
- reduces sdist from ~100MB to ~11MB
- scikit-build-core sdist uses gitignore syntax: exclude everything with
  "/*/**" and "/*", then whitelist specific paths with sdist.include

docs/content/cpp/1.getting-started/1.index.md, after:

---
title: Introduction
description: Real-time geometric processing. Easy to use, robust on real-world data.
navigation:
  icon: i-lucide-house
---

`trueform` is a C++ library for real-time geometric processing. Spatial queries, mesh booleans, isocontours, topology — at interactive speed on million-polygon meshes. Robust to non-manifold flaps, inconsistent winding, and pipeline artifacts. Header-only; works directly on your data with zero-copy views.

::try-it-banner
::

You control the complexity. Simple code just works. Algorithms compute what they need internally. In performance-critical paths, precompute structures and tag them. The compiler detects and reuses them.

::core-hierarchy-diagram
::

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-rocket
  title: Installation
  to: /cpp/getting-started/installation
  ---
  Via pip with cmake and conan modules — or from source.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-box
  title: Modules
  to: /cpp/modules
  ---
  Learn how trueform works — primitives, ranges, policies, and the algorithms that connect them.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-chart-bar-stacked
  title: Benchmarks
  to: /cpp/benchmarks
  ---
  Benchmarked against VTK, CGAL, libigl, Coal, FCL, and nanoflann.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-code
  title: Examples
  to: /cpp/examples
  ---
  Complete workflows — geometry, alignment, and library comparisons.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-layers
  title: VTK Integration
  to: /cpp/vtk
  ---
  Bring trueform performance to VTK applications.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-book-open
  title: Research
  to: /cpp/about/research
  ---
  Theory, publications, and citation.
  :::
::

## Quick Tour

Here's how trueform enables complex geometric workflows with minimal code:

```cpp
#include <trueform/trueform.hpp>

// Start with your raw data—no copies, no conversions
std::vector<float> raw_points = {0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0};
std::vector<int> indices = {0, 1, 2};

auto points = tf::make_points<3>(raw_points);
auto faces = tf::make_faces<3>(indices);
auto triangles = tf::make_polygons(faces, points);
// or maybe faces are variable
std::vector<int> offsets = {0, 3};
auto d_faces = tf::make_faces(offsets, indices);
auto d_polygons = tf::make_polygons(d_faces, points);

auto polygons_buffer = tf::read_stl("file.stl");
auto polygons = polygons_buffer.polygons();
```

**Primitive queries** work directly on geometry:

```cpp
auto polygon = polygons.front();
auto segment = tf::make_segment_between_points(points[0], points[1]);
auto ray = tf::make_ray_between_points(
    tf::make_point(0.2f, 0.2f, -1.0f),
    tf::make_point(0.2f, 0.2f, 1.0f));

auto [dist2, pt_on_poly, pt_on_seg] = tf::closest_metric_point_pair(polygon, segment);
bool contains = tf::contains_point(polygon, points[0]);
if (auto hit = tf::ray_hit(ray, polygon)) {
    auto [status, t, hit_point] = hit;
}
```

**Mesh analysis** reveals structure and defects:

```cpp
// Connected components
auto [n_components, labels] = tf::make_manifold_edge_connected_component_labels(polygons);
auto [components, component_ids] = tf::split_into_components(polygons, labels);

// Vertex neighborhoods
auto v_link = tf::make_vertex_link(polygons);
auto k2_ring = tf::make_k_rings(v_link, 2);
auto neighs = tf::make_neighborhoods(polygons.points() | tf::tag(v_link), 0.5f);

// Principal curvatures and directions
auto [k0, k1, d0, d1] = tf::make_principal_directions(polygons);

// Boundary curves (open edges)
auto boundary_paths = tf::make_boundary_paths(polygons);
auto boundary_curves = tf::make_curves(boundary_paths, polygons.points());

// Non-manifold edges (shared by >2 faces)
auto bad_edges = tf::make_non_manifold_edges(polygons);
auto bad_segments = tf::make_segments(bad_edges, polygons.points());

// Fix inconsistent face winding
tf::orient_faces_consistently(polygons);
```

**Spatial acceleration** enables queries on transformed geometry:

```cpp
tf::aabb_tree<int, float, 3> tree(polygons, tf::config_tree(4, 4));

auto dynamic_form = polygons | tf::tag(tree)
    | tf::tag(tf::random_transformation<float, 3>());
auto static_form = polygons | tf::tag(tree);

// Collision detection
bool does_intersect = tf::intersects(static_form, dynamic_form);
float distance2 = tf::distance2(static_form, dynamic_form);

// Collect all intersecting primitive pairs
std::vector<std::pair<int, int>> collisions;
tf::gather_ids(static_form, dynamic_form, tf::intersects_f,
               std::back_inserter(collisions));

// Compute intersection curves
auto curves = tf::make_intersection_curves(static_form, dynamic_form);
```

**Boolean operations** combine meshes:

```cpp
auto [result_mesh, labels] = tf::make_boolean(
    polygons0,
    polygons1 | tf::tag(tf::make_rotation(tf::deg(45.f), tf::axis<2>)),
    tf::boolean_op::merge);

// With intersection curves
auto [result, labels, curves] = tf::make_boolean(
    polygons0, polygons1, tf::boolean_op::intersection, tf::return_curves);
```

**Scalar fields and isocontours**:

```cpp
// Compute distance field from a plane
auto plane = tf::make_plane(polygons.front());
tf::buffer<float> scalars;
scalars.allocate(polygons.points().size());
tf::parallel_transform(polygons.points(), scalars, tf::distance_f(plane));

// Extract isocontours embedded into the mesh
std::vector<float> cut_values = {-0.5f, 0.0f, 0.5f};
auto [contour_mesh, contour_labels, isocontours] = tf::embedded_isocurves(
    polygons, scalars, tf::make_range(cut_values), tf::return_curves);
```

**Mesh cleanup** prepares geometry for processing:

```cpp
// Merge coincident vertices, remove degenerates and duplicates
auto clean_mesh = tf::cleaned(polygons, tf::epsilon<float>);

// Triangulate n-gons
auto tri_mesh = tf::triangulated(polygons);

// Ensure outward-facing normals on closed meshes
tf::ensure_positive_orientation(polygons);
```

## Continue Learning

The Quick Tour above shows trueform's syntax. To build intuition for real workflows, start with the Geometry Walkthrough — a complete example from raw data to final output. Then explore the Modules to understand the underlying patterns.

::card-group
  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-box
  title: Geometry Walkthrough
  to: /cpp/examples/mesh-assembly
  ---
  A hands-on tour from raw geometry through booleans and connected components. See the library in action.
  :::

  :::card
  ---
  icon: i-lucide-book-open
  title: Modules
  to: /cpp/modules
  ---
  Learn how trueform works — primitives, ranges, policies, and the algorithms that connect them.
  :::
::
